
                             Quatris 2.0
                         The Games of Shapes


     Quatris is a game of placing shapes strategically as they fall 
into place.  Each shape can be thought of as 4 small squares linked 
together.  Thus the name Quatris.  These shapes are sometimes refered 
to as tetrominoes.  The game is similar to the commercial game Tetris.  
This adaptation of the theme is for CP/M.  It is written in Turbo 
Pascal, and thus requires a Z80 or compatible CPU.  The source code is 
available for a modest fee, and can be ported to MS-DOS with little 
trouble.

     The game controls are mostly numbers.  The game screen lists the 
controls, so play is simple.  Strategy is complex however.  The main 
object is to completely fill whole rows with blocks.  When this 
happens, the row vanishes, and the end of the game is postponed.  
Points are accumulated as each shape drops.  You get more points for 
placing the shape faster, so use the space bar to drop it into place 
as soon as it is properly positioned.  You get more points at harder 
(lower) levels as the action speeds up.  It may be strategic to begin 
at a higher level, or to advance while playing.  The level auto- 
matically advances, if not high enough already, after a certain number 
of rows have been filled.  An option to preview the next shape is 
available, but it does slightly lower your points.

     The .COM file is initially set up for a Kaypro/Televideo/ADM type 
terminal.  The public domain program PDTINS by Carson Wilson is 
included to allow this to be changed if needed.  My thanks to him for 
this program.  In the unlikely event that a compatible terminal is not 
on the PDTINS menu, you only need to worry about clear screen and 
cursor addressing.  Look for 01A hex for clear screen, and <ESC>=rc 
for cursor addressing in the distributed .COM file.  The crt init (and 
exit) sequence can be used to turn the cursor off (and back on) if it 
bothers you.  With DDT, the strings would begin (length first) at 016B 
hex (off) and 017B hex (on).  Add your strings, with appropriate 
lengths, to enable this feature.

     The game is configured to run best on a 4 MHz machine.  This too 
can be changed.  To try a different value (lower values make the game 
more challenging) include the value on the command line, example:

     A>QUATRIS 3MHZ<RET>

To enter your system speed permanently as the default, requires DDT or 
some other patch utility.  The value is at location 0124 hex.

     A high scores file is maintained for the top ten scores.  This 
encourages competition and makes the game more enjoyable, even if you 
only try to better your own high score.  My high score is about 6500.  
To see the high scores without playing just enter the command:

     A>QUATRIS SCORE<RET>

     The game can be exited early if desired.  In case of supervisor 
surveillance, or if you need to pause for some reason (ahem), there is 
a key which clears the screen and leaves a bogus "A>" prompt.  Hit 
any key to resume where you left off, or hit ESC at the false prompt 
to quietly exit to CP/M (your score is not recorded in this case).

     This software and documentation is copyright 1989 by Steven B. 
Perkins.  You are free to use, copy, and distribute it as long as it 
is not for profit.  Contact me if other arrangements are desired.

     I believe the CP/M world can use more support.  There really are 
a lot of us out here!  Any comments about this game, or monetary 
encouragement towards further efforts and upgrades can be sent to the 
address below.  I also frequent Z-Node 45: (713)937-8886 and you can 
leave messages for me there.  A donation of $10 or more makes you an 
official supported user.  If you send such a donation and a floppy 
disk, you will receive the source code, the latest version, and another 
game and utility to try.  Have fun, and keep supporting CP/M and the Z- 
system.


     Address:       Steven B. Perkins
                    1227 Spring Ridge Dr.
                    Sandy, UT  84094
